It's always good to trace the run time to figure out exactly what's happening inside of your application.
So what I'm going to do is just apply breakpoints inside of submit form, nothing else.
And you know what?
Maybe I'll apply some breakpoints inside the setters.
We'll put some in.
Not the getters.
The setters.
We'll put them in.
Set name, set subject and set score.
All right, I will terminate the application.
And rerun it in debug mode.
All right.
It should have run by now.
I'll start by going to local host.
80.
And I will submit a blank name, a score of C minus as well as a blank subject, and upon pressing submit
it should initiate a post request and carry all that data to our back end.
Indeed it does.
And I forgot to put a breakpoint here.
But essentially, as we saw a million times before, submit form intercepts the the post request.
It starts by creating an empty grade object and spring mood is smart enough to populate every single
field inside this empty grade object with a parameter from the post request starts by updating the name
with a blank value.
Updates the score with a blank value and it updates.
Actually, no, the score was not blank.
We did put a C-minus, but the subject was blank.
And and after updating every single field inside of the great object with a value from the post request,
it gets a validated and the binding result carries the result of this validation.
So if we drill into result, you can see that it has an array list of all of the errors involved in
this validation.
There is one error that says the name cannot be blank, and there's another error that says the subject
cannot be blank.
And you can see that it keeps a record of the object where these values came from.
So right before we return, the form.
This entire form is bound to our grade object.
Finally, Ferrers uses a selection expression to select the name field of the previously bound object.
And what Flyleaf errors will do is actually display the error that associated with that field.
This one is going to grab the error associated with the subject field.
So if I press next.
Nice.
Now, let's just say everything runs successfully.
So we'll say Harry, we'll say potions, press, submit, updates the name, score a bit of subject
with payload from the post request.
The object is fine.
You can see that the result does not have any errors.
The size of the errors array list is zero.
So this if block is going to get skipped, it's going to successfully submit this grade object to the
array list.
Then it's going to redirect the user to the to make a get request on slash grades.
That's exactly what's going to happen.
I didn't put a breakpoint here, but it will return the grades template populated with our new data.
All right.
Thank you for tuning in.